This is what I walk through, every day, every
couple of days.
So, really, this is what you'd expect to see
on your walk to work, on your walk to school,
pretty much anywhere in Canada.
I'm out here on the West Coast, Vancouver
Island, but, y'know, in the past, I used to
live in downtown Toronto.
It's pretty much the same as this.
You throw a dart at the map, anywhere in Canada,
this is what you'd expect to see.
I don't want to mislead you if you're watching
this in China or Japan.
Y'know, one part of Canada is pretty much
the same as the other.
You see this?
Nowhere is safe, man.
Nowhere is safe.
So on this walk, already, I have seen deer,
and some wild rabbits.
Today I did not see any woodpeckers but the
signs of them are everywhere around us.
Like I say, it's pretty much the same as living
in Toronto or anywhere else, being here on
the West Coast of B.C.
It's just, y'know, your absolutely typical
walk to school, walk to work, for any Canadian.
Not as many bears out here on the island.
Not so much of a concern about bear attacks.
I mean, I guess the differences are little
things, like, uh, differences of dialect.
They have these bushes here that grow berries,
I don't know if we'll come up on one, they're
just about everywhere, and, uh, local people
call them blackberries.
I find that a little bit weird, y'know.
We have the same thing in the streets of Toronto,
y'know, just about everywhere.
We used to call them crack berries.
I don't know what that is, it's like a difference
in dialect or something.
It's like the only thing you can get in the
streets of Toronto after about 8:00 PM.
Something like that.
So, on a regular day this is really quite
a busy area.
This is their First Nations House, that they
choose to call First People's House, for reasons
that would take a while to explain.
This is not a regular, functional building
on the campus.
It is partly, of course, a symbolic gesture
to our Native People, here in British Columbia,
in recognition, with some sense of gratitude,
that, uh, this university is being built on
their bones and their ashes, and on the snuffed-out
potential of what their civilization could
have been, if it weren't ground under the
boot-heel of the British Empire.
And while that recognition here may merely
be symbolic, I do appreciate it, and I do
appreciate going to a university that has
this type of symbolic architecture at its
center (literally and figuratively), rather
than being a university that has a Christian
church, or a Catholic cathedral, or even a
Buddhist temple.
So, while that may be merely symbolic, uh,
I do appreciate it.
Now, I would appreciate it quite a bit more
if any First Nations language were taught
on this campus, any one whatsoever, and if
it were possible for a single student to learn
a single sentence in any Native Language,
at a time when those languages are struggling
to survive.
There it is.
I chose an evening when this usually-bustling
area is completely empty.
And that's pretty much the core of the campus.
It'll be closed now, but at the end of that
garden path is the dining hall, where there
are indeed vegan options.
So this looks like we're back in the middle
of the forest, but this is the dead center
of the campus.
This is where I pay to read books and, uh,
to have professors pretend that they respect
my opinion.
They do a very nice job on the landscaping
(for a Canadian university).
It's not really impressive compared to universities
in Taiwan, to be honest with you.
But, of course, part of what's going on here
is that the university has to justify the
cost of tuition, and they have competition
right next door.
Just a couple of bus-stops away, there's another
university called Camosun where they teach
some of the same things at a much lower price.
And, actually, when I was studying Chinese,
people were telling me that the next university
down the street had a better quality Chinese
education at a lower price, and when I was
studying Japanese, actually, the professor
herself suggested that I try that university
(the competition, just a few bus-stops away),
again suggesting that I would get a better
education at a lower price there.
But, part of what you pay for is the view,
I guess.